Clinton, Trump Poised to Battle
Fall matchup pits consummate insider against brash outsider.

Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump
It's looking like Hillary Clinton vs. Donald Trump in November.

By Kenneth T. Walsh March 9, 2016, at 7:28 a.m. + More
 The Associated Press
RELATED

Sanders Surprises In Michigan; Trump Towers In Michigan, Mississippi

After the latest round of presidential primaries Tuesday, the delegate math is clear: Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump are still likely to win their respective nominations, setting up a race this fall between Trump as a tough-talking, often bombastic Washington outsider and Clinton as a consummate insider with a golden political resume. 

Trump, the Republican front-runner from New York, won GOP contests in Michigan, Mississippi and Hawaii. This gave him victories in three different regions with varied electorates as he expanded his lead in the GOP race, making it more difficult for the party establishment to deny him the nomination.

With 1,237 delegates needed to win the GOP nomination, Trump now has 446 delegates to 347 for Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, 151 for Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida and 54 for Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, according to media estimates.

Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont edged Democratic front-runner Clinton in the big-stakes primary in Michigan Tuesday while losing to her by a huge margin in Mississippi. But she picked up the most delegates Tuesday night and remains on a glide path to the Democratic nomination.

With 2,383 delegates needed to win the Democratic nod, Clinton has 760 pledged delegates and Sanders has 546. But the Democrats also have nearly 500 "superdelegates" – elected officials and party activists who get to vote for a nominee but aren't formally pledged (meaning their allegiance isn't determined by the outcome of primaries or caucuses). Clinton has the backing of the overwhelming majority of the superdelegates. When these numbers are considered, Clinton really has 1,220 delegates to Sanders' 571, according to the Associated Press.

[READ: Donald Trump v. Hillary Clinton – What to Watch For]

Clinton won Mississippi Tuesday with 83 percent to Sanders' 16 percent. In a major upset, Sanders took 50 percent in Michigan to Clinton's 48 percent.

Trump, a billionaire real-estate developer, won Michigan with 37 percent of the vote, followed by Cruz with 25 percent, Kasich with 24 percent, and Rubio with 9 percent, based on incomplete returns.

Trump won Mississippi with 47 percent, followed by Cruz with 36 percent, Kasich with 9 percent and Rubio with 5 percent. Trump was declared the winner by two television networks in the Hawaii caucuses, but the details were not clear early Wednesday morning.

Cruz won Idaho with 45 percent; Trump had 28 percent, Rubio had 17 percent and Kasich had 7 percent.

Trump told a rally Tuesday night he is a "unifier" and will bring the GOP together, even though he diverted from his mostly tame approach to belittle two opponents with whom he has tangled in recent weeks, referring to Cruz as "lying' Ted" and Rubio as "little Marco."

Trump tried to reassure conservatives who have doubts about his commitment to their policies. He said he is very conservative on many issues including immigration and border security, strengthening the military, and cutting the budget deficit.

If he wins the White House, Trump said he would no longer be so angry and insulting toward his adversaries. "I can be more presidential than anybody," other than Republican President Abraham Lincoln, he argued.

[DECISION 2016: U.S. News Covers the Race to the White House]

Trump has consistently captured one-third of the GOP vote in state after state, and sometimes a bit more, not an overwhelming number but generally more than his rivals. As long as the field is divided, one-third is likely to be enough to continue winning. And as the states shift to winner-take-all instead of a proportional allocation of delegates, one-third could get him all the delegates in big states such as Ohio and Florida next Tuesday. This would accelerate his momentum.

Trump already is looking ahead to the fall general-election campaign. He told a news conference at the end of his victory rally in Jupiter, Florida, "We will take many, many people away from the Democrats" and win many independents. "We're going to beat Hillary Clinton and we're going to beat her badly," Trump said. He said the vote in the 2016 Republican contests is substantially ahead of what it was in 2012 while Democratic turnout has declined.

 Pope Francis speaks to journalists aboard the flight from Mexico to Italy, on  Feb. 18, 2016.      
RELATED

Pope Francis: Person Who Builds Walls 'Is Not Christian'

Trump said negative advertising has lost much of its importance in the 2016 campaign. He noted that many million dollars have been spent against him by his Republican competitors and he is still the leader. "They've attacked me viciously and every single one of them who has attacked me is gone," Trump said of his rivals.

And he tried to reassure evangelical Christians, who have supported him more than many conservative strategists predicted, that he is a good choice. "I'm a very good Christian," he said, and he promised to stop forces in U.S. society from "chipping away at Christianity."

On the Democratic side, Sanders told reporters in Miami, "What tonight means is the Bernie Sanders campaign, the people's revolution that we are talking about, the political revolution we have been talking about, is strong in every part of the country."

Clinton, the former secretary of state and ex-senator from New York, told a rally in Cleveland, "I'm proud of the campaign that Senator Sanders and I are running. We have our differences but I'll tell ya what, those differences pale when compared to what's happening on the Republican side."